Nepal national under-17 football team is the under-17 football team of Nepal. The team recently participated in the 2014 AFC U-16 Championship.
In the mid-1980s, FIFA provided financial assistance and sent a number of coaches to help Nepal launch its first youth programme, which was geared towards spotting talent at the grassroots level and providing young players with the necessary know-how, both on and off the pitch. The initial five-year plan helped half the players groomed under the first youth programme to find a place in the national side, and the team that won the 2 gold medals in the first and sixth South Asian Federation Games mostly consisted of the players from that youth programme.
ANFA asked FIFA for financial assistance to check the downslide of Nepalese domestic football and in 1998, FIFA agreed to donate funds through its Financial Assistance Programme, thereby allowing ANFA to construct a secretariat along with a football pitch and a hostel in Kathmandu to launch its youth development programme. The two-year intensive training period for the youth players selected in 1998 produced a number of skilful players, who recently participated in the ninth SAF Games . The same team had earlier topped its group in the Asian Cup preliminary round in March 2004.
However despite reaching the finals tournament of the 2000 AFC Youth Championship in Vietnam, Nepal refused to participate in a biological age test, and as a result was banned from the 2002 AFC Youth Championship. This, along with the Maoist uprising left manager Stephen Constantine to resign.
In 2002, endeavours to develop football received a further fillip when FIFA awarded a Goal programme to Nepal. Thanks to this project, ANFA has constructed regional football centres that include hostels, office secretariats and playing grounds in three major towns in three different regions. ANFA built these centres to focus on spotting hidden talent in villages or schools around the nation. These centres will also provide the necessary coaching and physical training, and in the long-term, the nation as a whole will benefit with more regional football sides on a par with the clubs of Kathmandu.
Nepal was fined by the Asian Football Confederation of fielding over-age players during the 2014 AFC U-16 Championship. Since the fine, the All Nepal Football Association has put in place several necessary age checks as part of selection/trials. The most recent team has qualified for the 2016 AFC U-16 Championship, making it the first Nepal U-16 team to achieve a back-to-back qualification in history.
The team's home ground is shared with the Nepal national football team at the Dasarath Rangasala Stadium, a multi-purpose stadium in Tripureswor, Kathmandu, Nepal. Holding 25,000 spectators, of which 5.000 seated, it is the biggest stadium in Nepal. It is named after Dashrath Chand, one of the martyrs of Nepal.
Most recently, the stadium was used as a primary venue for the 2012 AFC Challenge Cup and the 2013 SAFF Championship, with the Halchowk Stadium hosting some of the matches as well. Apart from sporting events, the stadium is also used as a music venue for cultural events with Bryan Adams being the most notable act that performed at the site.
Prior to the 2013 SAFF Championship in Nepal, the Dasarath Rangasala underwent heavy renovation that saw several improvements such as the expansion of seats from 20,000 to 25,000.
   Win   Draw   Loss
ढाँचा:Nat fs r startढाँचा:Nat fs r playerढाँचा:Nat fs r playerढाँचा:Nat fs r player|- class="sortbottom"
|colspan="7" style="border:0;opacity:.75"|
ढाँचा:Nat fs r playerढाँचा:Nat fs r player|- class="sortbottom"
|colspan="7" style="border:0;opacity:.75"|
ढाँचा:Nat fs r playerढाँचा:Nat fs r playerढाँचा:Nat fs r playerढाँचा:Nat fs r player|- class="sortbottom"
|colspan="7" style="border:0;opacity:.75"|
ढाँचा:Nat fs r player|}
In order to qualify for the FIFA U-17 World Cup, AFC teams must secure a berth through a continental tournament, the AFC U-16 Championship.
उद्दरण त्रुटी: tags exist for a group named "N", but no corresponding tag was found, or a closing is missing
