नेपाल, भारत तथा अन्य स्थानहरूमा पाइने एक थर । यस थरका व्यक्तिहरू ब्राम्हण हुन्छन ।शर्मा Hindi शर्मा, Urdu شرمہ, Assamese: শর্মা भारतिय उपमहाद्विप मा थरको रूपमा प्रयोग गरिन्छ। नेपालमा व्राम्हण परिवारका पौडेल, ढकाल,ओली, खनाल, पोखरेल भण्डारी आदिले आफ्नो वास्तविक थरको सट्टा शर्मा लेख्ने गरेको पाइन्छ. केहिले भने आफ्नो थरसँगै शर्मा प्रयोग गर्ने गरेको भेटिन्छ।The name does not necessarily denote a unique paternal lineage but it is not uncommon to find it used as a middle name in some areas of North India. In South and South-central India, it constitutes a first name or given name. For instance, Janamanchi Seshadri Sarma's surname is Janamanchi and Sharma is part of the given name of Mayurasharma.The name Sharma is written as शर्मा in Hindi and Nepali. An alternative version of the name used in the city of Varanasi and the Indian states of Assam and Andhra Pradesh is Sarma. Some Assamese people also use Sarmah. and SarmaAccording to Dictionary of American Family Names, the name Sharma is listed as "Indian: Hindu name from Sanskrit šarma ‘joy’, ‘shelter’." Other theories suggest that origin of the name Sharma lies in the ancient Sanskrit word "Sharman" which means teacher or master.According to Indian sociologist, S. Devadas Pillai, in his book Indian sociology through Ghurye, a dictionary, "The suffix Sharma indicates that the chanter is a Brahman..." e.g. Surabhi Sharma, Somya Sharma, et al.
बिष्णु शर्मा - भारतिय लेखक तथा बिद्वान जसले पञ्चतन्त्र लेखेको विश्वास गरिन्छ।यशपाल शर्मा - कलाकार, भारतके.पी. शर्मा ओली -नेपाल कम्युनिस्ट पार्टी का नेता, नेपालदिनानाथ शर्मा -नेपाल कम्युनिस्ट पार्टी का नेता, नेपाल, पूर्व शिक्षा मन्त्री, नेपाल सरकारदुर्गानाथ शर्मा -संञ्चार कर्मी, नेपालअशोक शर्मा - नेपाली चलचित्रका निर्माता तथा निर्देशकजनार्दन शर्मा -नेपाल कम्युनिस्ट पार्टी का नेतापशुपति शर्मा - लोक गायक, नेपालअनुपराज शर्मा -पूर्व प्रधान न्यायाधिस, नेपालजीवन शर्मा -क्रान्तिकारि गायक, नेपालडा. शंकर शर्मा -संयुक्त राज्य अमेरिकाका लागी नेपालका राजदूतमोहन राज शर्मा -नेपाली लेखकनिर्मल शर्मा -हाँस्य कलाकार, नेपालहरिहर शर्मा -अभिनेता, नेपालउर्वशी शर्मा -भारतिय बलिउड अभिनेत्री तथा मोडेलसुनिल शर्मा born April 7, 1966, is an Indian educationist and materialist . Professor Pandit Nalin Vilochan Sharma पंडित नलिन विलोचन शर्मा was a professor of Hindi Literature in University of Patna. Pandit Narendra Sharma  was an Indian writer, poet and lyricist in Hindi language. Murari Sharma was a revolutionary who took part in the Kakori Conspiracy. Lakshmi Raj Sharma  is an Indian author, novelist, and academician. Deen Bandhu Sharma  was an Indian writer from the State of Jammu and Kashmir. Yagyadutt Sharma  was a Hindi, Novelist, Writer and Poet . Vasudev Sharma is an India n politician and veteran peasant leader. Bansi Lal Sharma was a geoscientist from Jammu, India. Ayodhya Prasad Sharma Member of Legislative Council North Western Indian Anuj Sharma is an Indian singer born in the small town of Rehan, Himachal Pradesh. Om Prakash Sharma was popularly known as "Janpriya Lekhak" meaning writer liked by people. Karan Sharma is an Indian actor who made his film debut in Dil Jo Bhi Kahey. Nathuram Sharma better known by his pen-name Shankar, was a Hindi and Urdu poet from Harduaganj.Balendu Sharma Dadhich is an Indian technology activist and editor and a well-known proponent of free and open source software and developer.Jagdish Sharma is an Indian Politician. He is a member of the Janata Dal.Janak Lal Sharma -Nepali WriterMrinalini Sharma is an Indian model and Bollywood actress. Born in September 1982, she hails from New Delhi.Eshan Sharma is a freelance Indian Singer and versatile singer who has been a contestant of Indian Idol. Rahul Sharma is an Indian cricketer. Anushka Sharma is an Indian actress and former model who appears in Hindi films. Diwakar Sharma is an Indian singer.
