Oral र Maxillofacial Surgery is surgery to correct a wide spectrum of diseases, injuries र defects in the head, neck, face, jaws र the hard र soft tissues of the oral र maxillofacial region. It is a recognized international medical specialty, which requires a minimum length of formation of 5 years for a basic medical training र 4 years for a basic medical र dental training, in the European Union. In the U.S.A. र Canada it is one of the 9 dental specialties recognized by the American Dental Association र the Royal College of Dentists of Canada.
Oral र maxillofacial surgeons are trained to treat problems such as the extraction of wisdom teeth, misaligned jaws, tumors र cysts of the jaw र mouth, र to perform dental implant surgery. They are also trained to administer anesthesia, र provide care in an office setting. The scope of this specialty is extensive र concerns the diagnosis र treatment of diseases affecting the oral र maxillofacial regions, including the following:
Oral र Maxillofacial Surgeons frequently work alongside other specialists including dentists, orthodontists, prosthodontists, radiologists, pathologists, oncologists, ENT surgeons, neurosurgeons, plastic surgeons र professionals allied to medicine .
Oral र Maxillofacial Surgery is often found at the bridge of dentistry र medicine, and, as such, is recognized as a medical specialty in most countries, a dental specialty in others. Most countries require dual-certification in both dentistry र medicine to practice Oral र Maxillofacial Surgery.
In the U.S.A., Oral र Maxillofacial Surgery is one of the 9 dental specialties recognized by the American Dental Association र requires 4–6 years of further formal University training after dental school . The 4-year residency programs grant a certificate of specialty training in Oral र Maxillofacial Surgery. The 6-year residency programs grant the specialty certificate in addition to a medical degree . Specialists in this field are designated registrable U.S. “Board Eligible” र warrant exclusive titles. Approximately 50% of the training programs in the U.S. are dual-degree programs, leading to dual certification in dentistry र medicine .
The typical training program for a U.S. Oral र Maxillofacial Surgeon is:
In addition, graduates of Oral र Maxillofacial Surgery training programs can pursue advanced fellowships, typically 1 – 2 years in length, training in the following areas:
The Oral र Maxillofacial Surgeon is a person with a medical र a dental degree or equivalent qualifications, examples of which would be a specialist certificate in Stomatology. This training must be a University Course authenticated by a certificate.
This specialty is defined within Europe, including the United Kingdom, under the medical Directive 2001/19/EC . It requires 5 years for a basic medical training or 4 years of further formal University training after a dual qualification in Medicine र Dentistry  . 
The training program for an E.C. Oral र Maxillofacial Surgeon is:
Belgium, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, Finland र the United Kingdom grant entry to higher years to applicants with a medical or a dental degree. This shortens training time by a year or two.
Italy does not grant any shortening of training time for both degrees र specialty. 
The European Directive 2001/19/EC also distinguishes Oral र Maxillofacial Surgery from other evidence of formal qualifications in specialised dentistry, such as Oral Surgery, which requires a minimum length of 3 years, is limited to Oral Surgery र is reserved to the dental practitioners, who consequently are not allowed to practice Oral र Maxillofacial Surgery.
Switzerland grants shortening of training time for Medicine र Dentistry. A formal qualification in Medicine grants entry to the 3rd year of Dentistry, while Dentistry to the 3rd year od Medicine . In Switzerland Oral र Maxillofacial Surgery requires 3 years of formal qualification in specialised Medicine.
In Eastern European states that were Communist before the end of the Cold War, Oral र Maxillofacial Surgery was a specialty of Dentistry.
Oral र Maxillofacial Surgery occupies a unique position in Australia, New Zealand र the UK, र is regarded as a true specialty of both medicine र dentistry combined.
Traditionally training in Oral र Maxillofacial Surgery in the UK was of four years duration र was regarded as a discipline of dentistry alone. Trainees would emerge with a Fellowship in Dental Surgery from one of the Royal Colleges of Surgeons र the entitlement to use the FDSRCS title. Training in Australia र New Zealand followed a similar pathway, with four years of clinical training but this time generally administrated through universities, earning a Master of Dental Science degree.
However in the 1980s र 1990s due to changing trends in the practice of oral र maxillofacial surgery around the world, legislative changes occurred, first in the UK र followed shortly by Australia र New Zealand, whereby in order to train in Oral र Maxillofacial Surgery, applicants needed to be dually qualified with undergraduate degrees in dentistry र medicine. This represented official recognition of the unique position Oral र Maxillofacial Surgery occupies at the interface of the "traditionally medical" र "traditionally dental" spheres of health care.
Here the UK र the Antipodes diverged somewhat. In Australia र New Zealand, training courses were adapted to provide "integrated" training in Medicine र Oral Surgery i.e. singly qualified dentists would enter into a comprehensive program, the first 3 years of which were spent as a full time medical student in order to obtain the necessary prerequisite qualifications to proceed to the surgical training. Obtaining a medical degree in Australia any other way at that time took 6 years. The shortened time was a reflection of basic sciences knowledge already possessed by the trainees. Unfortunately for trainees, training time suddenly doubled to 8 years.
In the UK however, persons wishing to practice as an Oral र Maxillofacial Surgeon had to obtain a medical degree independently of any training program. Once qualified as a dentist र as a physician, the trainee could then apply for training as an Oral र Maxillofacial Surgeon. Some UK medical schools grant entry to higher years to applicants with a dental degree. This shortens training time by a year or two.
Oral र Maxillofacial Surgeons trained in the UK probably spend more aggregate time in training than any other surgical specialty.
Aggregate training time:
Total time: 19 years training 
By comparison, US-trained surgeons generally spend more time as undergraduate "Pre-med" students र less time in residency training. One might therefore regard US doctors as having a more well-rounded education, but shorter clinical training.
The popularity of oral र maxillofacial surgery as a career for persons whose first degree was medicine, not dentistry, seems to be increasing in Australia. Integrated programs are available to medical graduates allowing them to complete a dental degree in about 3–4 years in order for them to advance to surgical training.
Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery in India is a post-graduate degree in Dentistry. The prospective surgeon has to take an examination to enter an undergraduate program in dentistry. This course is usually 4 years long. Upon completion of the program, the student has to do a 1 year internship in a dental college to get the BDS . In order to specialize in OMFS, the student has to take another examination to enter a 3-year MDS program. During this period the student does a residency in general medicine, anaesthesia, general surgery, र neurosurgery . A dissertation has to submitted as part of the master's degree, र is followed by a theory exam र practical surgery exam. The degree is conferred after he is found eligible by the examiners.
There are about 3500 Oral & Maxillofacial Surgeons in India.
M: TTH
anat/devp/phys
noco/cong/jaws/tumr, epon, injr
dent, proc 

