 Pathology is the study of the processes underlying disease र other forms of illness, harmful abnormality, or dysfunction. Within biology but also a branch of medicine, it means specifically the study र diagnosis of the structural र functional changes in cells, tissues र organs that underlie disease. Pathology as a field of knowledge hence forms the basis of the scientific reasoning behind the practice of medicine. 
The primary goal of pathology is the study of the four main aspects of a disease:
Because the public rarely meets pathologists, their work is not well understood. Pathology is a large र diverse field that allows a pathologist to participate in multiple areas of the field or focus their scope to a specific area. Essential to everyday surgeries, pathologists are responsible for processing र reporting on all specimens generated during surgery. Tissue samples are taken from the submitted specimens, stained, र processed for microscopic evaluation. Microscopic examination searches for disease of any type र this information is returned to the surgeon via a pathology report. Pathologists are also responsible for laboratory specimens. They, along with medical technologists, process specimens at medical laboratories for interpretations. In other words, when a doctor refers to a "laboratory result", they are not referring to a number generated by a black box; instead, it is the interpretation of a value by a pathologist or a technologist. It is also important to understand that a different laboratory might produce a different value on the same specimen.  Pathologists are also called upon to perform autopsies. Autopsies represent less than 5% of the workload of a typical modern pathologist. There exists a subspecialty in pathology that allows for the training of medical examiners who wish to pursue forensics. 
Pathologists usually do not see patients, but do on occasion such as when performing bone marrow biopsies र aspirates or fine needle aspirations of superficial nodules. Thus, it is best considered a form of diagnostic medicine. In addition to the diagnosis of disease, including cancer, र the administration of medical laboratories, pathologists often participate in the teaching of medical students . Pathologists express their opinion as a pathology report addressed to the doctor requesting it. Since pathologists most often communicate with other doctors, they are sometimes nicknamed "the doctor's doctor". Pathology is often considered the most scientific branch of medicine because of the available avenues of research involving human material. Finally, the circulation of laboratory data is a central issue in medical informatics र the current tendency towards electronic medical records.
The techniques used most often in the study of the disease process र hence diagnosis are:
In the United States, pathologists are medical doctors or doctors of osteopathic medicine, that have completed a four year undergraduate program, four years of medical school training, र four to five years of postgraduate training in the form of a pathology residency. Training may be within two primary specialties, as recognized by the American Board of Pathology:
Most pathologists seek a broad based training in both fields र thus require four years of postgraduate training known as residency. Finally, a board certification examination is required. Boarding requirements are set by the American Board of Pathology. Pathologists, like all other medical doctors, are also required to meet continuing medical education requirements.
The American Board of Oral र maxillofacial pathology certifies dentistry doctors, not medical doctors, to practice this sub-specialty of Pathology.
Pathological is used to describe a person's actions in such a way as to credit the action to a disease process, e.g. pathological purchasing or pathological consumption, pathological narcissism, pathological liar, pathological gambling, pathological jealousy. Pathological is also used casually, to signify an abnormal state, e.g. a "pathological attitude" or a "pathological woman hater".
Pathological is also used in mathematics, physics, र statistics to describe an exceptionally atypical example or set of data, often one which does not abide by rules or succumb to treatment that other similar cases usually do:
Computer science uses this term in a slightly different sense with regard to the study of algorithms. Here, an input is said to be pathological if it causes atypical behavior from the algorithm, such as a violation of its average case complexity, or even its correctness. For example, hash tables generally have pathological inputs: sets of keys that collide on hash values. The term is often used pejoratively, as a way of dismissing such inputs as being specially designed to break a routine that is otherwise sound in practice.
Forensic Engineers often use the term to describe the underlying causes of distress in structures or machinery in order to specify repairs.

