This project is also available at the svn, you can download from svn and build if you want to see the source.
You can translate the text here तपाइले यहाँ पनि अनुवाद गर्न सक्नुहुन्छ।
किसे अपना कहें
--Rajesh 10:16, 1 सेप्टेम्बर 2011 
Fetches Wikipedia article content. Thanks to dotnetwikibot for this. --राजेश 19:47, 8 जुन 2011 
Download and Installdd
Alternatively you can browse the "Google projects" page here. You can also download the svn and modify the application if you are familiar with c# .net. This application was developed in a system which had a Windows 7 machine, Visual Studio 2010 and C# with 3 GB of RAM, and an I3 Processor, Dell Vostro 3400 Machine.
SVN address: 
This project was developed while I was editing Nepali Wikipedia, specially replacing some texts from the articles that were imported from other languages.
I was using word's find and replace functionality however I wanted those find and replace to use repeatedly, and I thought it would be nice to save what I replaced and use them later on again.
I started to save those "find and replace texts".Later this program was developed as a result.


A new version has been released on the occasion of the birthday of Wikipedia.I have updated words, added some more rules and the accuracy is increased. New fixes has been added and the user interface looks better.The application has an icon now and looks better.
Overall, the performance is better. I don't use Google transliteration because it is time consuming there and I prefer in my own editor. Though Google transliteration is a good place because they might use the data for research and they might one day add Nepali language support. But for now I have been using both. The unavailability of Google translator in Nepali led to the development of this application and I am pretty happy with what this application can do now. 
I created a hindi to Nepali corpus so that I could easily convert hindi text to Nepali and thus translate it.There are various transliteration tools that are available in the internet but they are focused around English. There are very few translation tools available for Nepali language. I chose Nepali language because:

The author was born in Nepal and spoke Nepali during his entire life so the preference of the language to be Nepali is not a surprise. Discovery of Wikipedia: Though not exactly a discovery but it seemed like while the author was playing with certain articles in English Wikipedia, administrators of English Wikipedia started to delete author’s articles which were originally written in the domain of “KnightOnline” which is a massively multiply role playing game. The author then was struck with an idea of inverting the characters: en.wikipedia.org to ne.wikipedia in the way they existed: “e“ and “n” would be “n“ and “e“. After hitting the web browser with this address : ne.wikipedia.org opened a new world of Wikipedia which had a familiar interface in Nepali language. This was overwhelming since he was unaware of such a place in the web. Somebody would rarely put something like Nepali Wikipedia similar to that of English Wikipedia. 
The author went on exploring Nepali Wikipedia. It was interesting that nobody would object him whatever he would do in that Wikipedia. After initially playing in the playground of that Wikipedia he found interesting to translate some of the articles and add some of the things he knew. This is a usual way of an Wikipedian to react with any Wikipedia.
The author was soon delimited by the tools and technologies at that time, to translate any article from any other language. The translation of text seemed cumbersome and he would do a find and replace in a word processor, which used to be a Microsoft word 2000, the latest word processor that he could use at that time. Soon he found some long articles in Hindi Wikipedia which were of common interest and posed an ancient value. Soon a find and replace could quickly translate the whole article in a meaningful article in Nepali which was easy and didn’t take more time than three hours. The article was posted in the Nepali Wikipedia. All of these seemed quite interesting. Soon there were translation requests from other languages, which weren’t interesting. Yet he tried to translate using any kind of automated software or a find and replace kind of thing. The find and replace was cumbersome and he had to type in each find and replace keywords every time. Further he had to remember the already used find and replace keywords, and this was like a redo of what he had already done with previous articles. There was no software to record the valuable find and replace keywords. The author being a student of software engineering could imagine of such software and could think of saving his work and keywords for future work; however that was limited to a brainchild rather than software itself. Years after that first thought he was able to program software that he wished for. A find and replace software.
After soon implementing certain find and replace, he wished to identify the part of speech in the sentences and work instead. The identification would be done by an exact match of the words placed in different files according to the parts of speech. For example nouns were placed in a noun file, verbs were placed in a verb file and the adjectives were placed in a separate file. The main file would consist of any other unclassified words along with the rules illustrating how the noun, verb and adjectives would be handled.
A combination of rules could be produced programmatic-ally.The words were replaced by giving the preference of first come first serve basis. The rules that were formed by the initial word in the rule file would be processed initially compared to the words at the last. For example if “apple” was to be translated into “banana” and “cherry apple” was to be translated to “strawberry” and if “apple” would occur at the top would convert any occurrence of “cherry apple” into “cherry banana”. In such cases “cherry apple” should be placed above “apple” in the rules file. 
The processing was done by adding texts in flat files and processing them. The input and the output would be provided in the application interface. 
These rules are processed during the runtime, the nouns, adjectives and verbs are fed along with the rules, and a list of rules are made which are processed accordingly.The lexicons/corpus or whatever it is might be a developed form of the combination of the verbs, nouns and the adjectives. These make up the sentences when combined together. We need to take care of these and translate accordingly. 
Umm yes recently translated the desktop application to a web application and searched for a free hosting website aspspider and uploaded there in February 2011. That simplifies a lot and the user can use the software from a web browser which is lot more simpler.
Umm yes there are a lot of tools that offer natural language processing. Madan Puraskar Pustakalaya, Kathmandu University Natural Language Processing in Kathmandu University are some I could remember. 
I was also looking at how to work at Google Translator Toolkit Data Reference GuideI and Google Translator Toolkit Data HTTP/Atom Guide for developers. I believe there are some researches going on in Microsoft research.
Obviously there should not be a comparision between the Dobhase system which has been developed far more scientifically and skillfully. It might have been designed in such a way that once there are enough words in the system, it might be the ideal Machine Translator. However I found the performance of Nepali Wikipedia Translator to be better than that of Dobhase, because Nepali Wikipedia Translator relies on Google translate for the actual translation from English to Hindi which is already in Devanagari script. While comparing these systems side by side, I found Nepali Wikipedia Translator to be far far much accurate, and is more dependent on Google for Hindi whereas Dobhase is independent of Google, and that is actually good. A machine translation system should be independent and the "Dobhase machine translation system" is better in that sense. 
However in the end, its us to decide what we want. For now we want a complete machine translation. What I want is to spend less time in translation and scratch my head for the meanings in English and Nepali for the whole day. It happens while I try to translate anything from English. 
So if we want we can have a workaround for this and get what we want more easily using Nepali Wikipedia Translator rather than Dobhase, which is the only Nepali Machine Translation system for the time being. I know it is not fair to compare both of them because Nepali Wikipedia Translator is mere like a rule based "find-and-replace-tool", but I find it to be more useful at this time. Dobhase needs more words and a larger corpus and more lexicons etc, but Nepali Wikipedia Translator uses Hindi which is similar to Nepali and in this way it serves better result and does not have to worry about creating the entire Nepali Corpus and the entire lexicon and the entire corpus. 
Here is a sentence that I translated recently
I was not biased and it was a random test, and I was not much excited when Nepali Wikipedia Translator scored better, but I was expecting that Dobhase would serve better for me because I know Dobhase will keep on evolving and will last longer. In that case I could skip going to Google translate, translate into Hindi, re-translate into Nepali. At the end there should be Google translate in Nepali, Dobhase the Nepali machine translator, or Microsoft translate for Nepali. 
The result from the Dobhase system was : 
The expected result was luckily obtained by Nepali Wikipedia Translator this time : 
The Google translated text in Hindi was : 


Recently the translator translated the following proper noun "समरजित सिंह तलवार" as "समरजित सिंह तलवार".
Blood is रगत in Nepali and खून in Hindi. The translator translated it into "रगत पसीना"
Similarly "शतरंजका खिलाडी" to "शतरंजका खेलाडी"
Sometimes these are typos are also spoken sometimes at certain cases such as in Literature. Because both Hindi and Nepali tend to go towards their origin: Sanskrit and they merge at that place. Both of the languages use these words but they have their own alternatives. So when a person talks in a literary way, they use these words and there its hard to translate. So translation is also a place where people have to judge the scenario and the background. But how would a rule based Machine translator know about these scenarios?
It depends on places and when people talk about "धुप" its a kind of incense sticks that is offered to the Gods. So in an article related to a festival धुप was there. But धुप is a general Hindi term for Sun.
Example: 
एडी कुर्कुच्चा
एडी डास्लर: कुर्कुच्चा डास्लर should not be translated because its a proper noun for Adi Dassler 
चलिरहेको विवाद : Exact Nepali translation because चल is हिड in general. But चलिरहेको means current. For example: 
Current debate should be translated to चलिरहेको विवाद 
However when we translate it, we get the following thing: 
चल रहा विवाद : Hindi phrase
हिड रहा विवाद : Translated phrase 
हिड रहे विवाद : Translated phrase 
Some Translated Articles
